---
layout:     bill
date:       2016-07-21 12:09:03
sequence:   "000"
title:      Constitution of the Pubgem Foundation
status:     proposed
permalink:  /register/bill/000/
---

<!--
- https://www.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/cd-dgc.nsf/vwapj/FRM-4001-e.pdf/$file/FRM-4001-e.pdf
-->

## Article 1: Name

This Organization shall be named Pubgem Foundation.

## Article 2: Objective

The objective of the Foundation shall be the aggregation and dissemination of knowledge and wisdom for human benefit, and the pursuit of projects designed to achieve these objectives.

## Article 3: Membership

All persons interested in the purposes of the Foundation are eligible for regular membership. Senior membership, which grants special privileges, shall be restricted to qualified members.

## Article 4: Officers

The officers of the Foundation shall consist of Chair, Vice Chair, Secretary, and Treasurer, all of whom shall be elected biannually.

## Article 5: Register

The Foundation shall regularly publish a Register of all reports, bylaws, bills, resolutions, meeting minutes, and other critical communications for the benefit of members.

## Article 6: Funds

All membership dues and other funds received by the Foundation shall constitute a Permanent Fund, to be kept invested, and the income therefrom to be used for the general purposes of the Foundation. The Permanent Fund may be used for other purposes of a substantial and permanent character upon enactment of bylaws governing its use.

## Article 7: Bylaws

The details of management of the Foundation shall be provided for in the Bylaws.  The bylaws may be amended by the majority vote of Senior Members in favor of a bill that shall have been published in the Register one month in advance.

## Article 8: Amendments

This Constitution may be amended by a two-thirds general membership vote in favor of a written resolution sponsored by a Senior Member, provided that a notice of the intended amendment shall have been published in the Register eleven months in advance.
